README.md, before:

# customguns-hl2dm
Sourcemod plugin that adds custom weapons to Half life 2: Deathmatch

Requirements
---------
[Metamod](http://www.metamodsource.net/) and [Sourcemod](http://www.sourcemod.net)  
[DHooks](https://forums.alliedmods.net/showthread.php?t=180114) 

Getting started
---------
Each custom weapon consists of:
* Weapon script
* Models & materials & other content like sounds (But you can use stock game content)
* Controlling plugin (Optional for more advanced weapons)

Weapon scripts are based on [Valve's weapon script](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/Weapon_script) files. It is recommended that you understand how all this works first. This plugin will read these files and look for a "CustomGunsPluginData" block that defines the custom weapon's properties and behavior. The properties read are mostly self explainatory and documented within the scripts of included examples.  
It's also possible to code weapons in their seperate plugins with the use of provided natives; however, script files are required for all weapons.

Original fields used (for authoring custom weapons)
* "viewmodel"
* "playermodel"
* "anim_prefix"
* "primary_ammo"
* "secondary_ammo"
* "clip_size"
* "default_clip"
* "clip2_size"
* "default_clip2"
* "autoswitchto"
* "autoswitchfrom"
* rumble
* SoundData { ... }

Weapon types & Examples
---------
* Check out the [Bubbleblower example weapon](examples/weapon_bubbleblower) for custom scripted weapons (also the [natives](scripting/include/customguns.inc)).   
* Check out the [Molotov example weapon](examples/weapon_molotov) for throwable weapons.   
* Check out the [OICW example weapon](examples/weapon_oicw) for bullet firing weapons.   
* There is also the default ["Hands" weapon example](examples/weapon_hands) that can help accessing other weapons. 

Installing the examples
---------
This is the preferred way of organizing because files inside the custom folder take priority:
```
hl2mp
└───custom
    └───Custom_Weapons
        ├───materials
        ├───models
        ├───scripts
        │   └───unused
        └───sound
```
(On some systems the custom folder can be inaccessible - resulting in 0 weapons, therefore drop the content directly under hl2mp)

Weapon scripts (txt files) go in scripts folder. Weapons can also be easily disabled by moving to the unused folder.  

Other content (models, sounds, ...) goes in its respective directory.  

[game_sounds_manifest.txt](examples/game_sounds_manifest.txt) and [game_sounds_weapons_custom.txt](examples/game_sounds_weapons_custom.txt) both go in the scripts folder. It is important that these files are indeed under the custom folder or sounds won't work properly. The latter file is where you add sounds when adding additional weapons.  

Move [gamedata/customguns.txt](gamedata/customguns.txt) into sourcemod's gamedata directory.  
Now, just put the smx files ([plugin](plugins/customguns.smx) and if you like [bubbleblower example](examples/weapon_bubbleblower/weapon_bubbleblower.smx)) into sourcemod's plugins folder and you're done!  

Once in-game, hold the reload button or bind +attack3 to activate the weapon switcher. Use the command sm_customguns to list and spawn weapons.

Convars & Commands
---------
CVARS:  
```
customguns_default | The preferred custom weapon that players should spawn with (weapon_hands by default)
customguns_global_switcher | Enables fast switching from any weapon by holding reload button. If 0, players can switch only when holding a custom weapon.
customguns_autogive | Globally enables/disables auto-giving of all custom weapons
customguns_order_alphabetically | If enabled, orders weapons by name in the menu, rather than the order they were picked up
hl2dm_customguns_version | Plugin version
```
Commands:
```
sm_customgun or sm_customguns | Spawns a custom gun by classname or gives it to a player if specified
sm_seqtest <sequence id> | Viewmodel sequence test
```

Special thanks
---------
Sourcemod (http://www.sourcemod.net)  
DHooks by Dr!fter (https://forums.alliedmods.net/showthread.php?t=180114)  
This thread (https://forums.alliedmods.net/showthread.php?p=1876312)   
[FT]Xen0morph  
Henky‼

Commit message:

v 1.5
- Added customguns_static_wheel (Enabled by default)
"Enables stationary item placement in the radial menu (1) versus dynamic
placement and resizing (0)"

- Minor cleanup

README.md, after:

# customguns-hl2dm
Sourcemod plugin that adds custom weapons to Half life 2: Deathmatch

Requirements
---------
[Metamod](http://www.metamodsource.net/) and [Sourcemod](http://www.sourcemod.net)  
[DHooks](https://forums.alliedmods.net/showthread.php?t=180114) 

Getting started
---------
Each custom weapon consists of:
* Weapon script
* Models & materials & other content like sounds (But you can use stock game content)
* Controlling plugin (Optional for more advanced weapons)

Weapon scripts are based on [Valve's weapon script](https://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/Weapon_script) files. It is recommended that you understand how all this works first. This plugin will read these files and look for a "CustomGunsPluginData" block that defines the custom weapon's properties and behavior. The properties read are mostly self explainatory and documented within the scripts of included examples.  
It's also possible to code weapons in their seperate plugins with the use of provided natives; however, script files are required for all weapons.

Original fields used (for authoring custom weapons)
* "viewmodel"
* "playermodel"
* "anim_prefix"
* "primary_ammo"
* "secondary_ammo"
* "clip_size"
* "default_clip"
* "clip2_size"
* "default_clip2"
* "autoswitchto"
* "autoswitchfrom"
* rumble
* SoundData { ... }

Weapon types & Examples
---------
* Check out the [Bubbleblower example weapon](examples/weapon_bubbleblower) for custom scripted weapons (also the [natives](scripting/include/customguns.inc)).   
* Check out the [Molotov example weapon](examples/weapon_molotov) for throwable weapons.   
* Check out the [OICW example weapon](examples/weapon_oicw) for bullet firing weapons.   
* There is also the default ["Hands" weapon example](examples/weapon_hands) that can help accessing other weapons. 

Installing the examples
---------
This is the preferred way of organizing because files inside the custom folder take priority:
```
hl2mp
└───custom
    └───Custom_Weapons
        ├───materials
        ├───models
        ├───scripts
        │   └───unused
        └───sound
```
(On some systems the custom folder can be inaccessible - resulting in 0 weapons, therefore drop the content directly under hl2mp)

Weapon scripts (txt files) go in scripts folder. Weapons can also be easily disabled by moving to the unused folder.  

Other content (models, sounds, ...) goes in its respective directory.  

[game_sounds_manifest.txt](examples/game_sounds_manifest.txt) and [game_sounds_weapons_custom.txt](examples/game_sounds_weapons_custom.txt) both go in the scripts folder. It is important that these files are indeed under the custom folder or sounds won't work properly. The latter file is where you add sounds when adding additional weapons.  

Move [gamedata/customguns.txt](gamedata/customguns.txt) into sourcemod's gamedata directory.  
Now, just put the smx files ([plugin](plugins/customguns.smx) and if you like [bubbleblower example](examples/weapon_bubbleblower/weapon_bubbleblower.smx)) into sourcemod's plugins folder and you're done!  

Once in-game, hold the reload button or bind +attack3 to activate the weapon switcher. Use the command sm_customguns to list and spawn weapons.

Convars & Commands
---------
CVARS:  
```
customguns_default | The preferred custom weapon that players should spawn with (weapon_hands by default)
customguns_global_switcher | Enables fast switching from any weapon by holding reload button. If 0, players can switch only when holding a custom weapon.
customguns_autogive | Globally enables/disables auto-giving of all custom weapons
customguns_order_alphabetically | If enabled, orders weapons by name in the menu, rather than the order they were picked up
customguns_static_wheel | Enables stationary item placement in the radial menu (1) versus dynamic placement and resizing (0)
hl2dm_customguns_version | Plugin version
```
Commands:
```
sm_customgun or sm_customguns | Spawns a custom gun by classname or gives it to a player if specified
sm_seqtest <sequence id> | Viewmodel sequence test
```

Special thanks
---------
Sourcemod (http://www.sourcemod.net)  
DHooks by Dr!fter (https://forums.alliedmods.net/showthread.php?t=180114)  
This thread (https://forums.alliedmods.net/showthread.php?p=1876312)   
[FT]Xen0morph  
Henky‼
